---
layout: post
title: Chapter 01 - Fear of the Crowd
date: 2020-05-02 12:32
categories: [bibliography, chapters]
author: Lee Jordan
published: true
---

It didn't take long to start. People could be depended on for one thing - to be selfish. True to form, the crowd went wild. An absolute frenzy of bodies trying to get to the nearest exit, trampling anyone who wasn't fast enough to keep moving. Bodies crushed under the weight of the moving mass. The threat wasn't the problem, the response of the people was the cause of so much fear and suffering.

Janice tried to keep space between herself and others in this - an impossible task. Pushing her hands out in front of herself to protect her unborn child. It wasn't very effective. Suddenly, she felt a hand in the crowd. He pushed in and enveloped her. "Let me help!" Pushing himself in front of her, he put his body between her and the front of the crowd, seemingly finding a path through the chaos. He pushed and she followed, her fear beginning to ease as they saw the light of the exit.

With one final push, they were out into the light of day. Once free of the bottleneck of the doors, there was no crowd and injured people seemed to meander aimlessly, trying to get their bearings without the surge of bodies behind them. Janice collapsed. She came to feeling his arms around her, pushing the hair out of her eyes. She was carried to a column, lay down gently, given a drink bottle and kissed on the forehead. Then he was gone.

She was too stunned to thank him. She was too shocked to ask his name. He was there to protect her and then once safe, he was gone.

After what seemed an eternity, Janice began to come to her senses. Her eyes focused on the late afternoon light. She began to remember the last moments before panic. Her mind started the taste of helping her forget the fear and moments of fighting for her and her baby's survival. She pushed against the column, gaining her feet and balance. Her backpack was gone. She would need to get to shelter soon, to find food and a place for the night.

Stumbling down the street, she passed boarded up shops. A news agent with papers from weeks ago, still pressed within broken glass. She started to read the cover page out of habit, but then was overwhelmed by sadness and began to get sick in front of the remains of the shop. People passed, no comments or offers to help came.

Janice slowly moved towards the only place she thought there might be shelter for the night. As the sun lowered in the sky and the light grew softer, her feet scuffled in the direction of the shelter. Her mind jumped from image to image from the day and then from the weeks preceding. Her baby kicked. She was brought back to the present. She leaned against a gate and felt for it. The first kick! She was excited and scared. No more followed.

She slowly continued to the shelter, knowing she must arrive before dark.

<div class="pagination">
    <a class="pagination-item older" href="https://therapy.geraldleejordan.com/about/">About</a>
      <a class="pagination-item newer" href="https://therapy.geraldleejordan.com/chapter-02/">Chapter Two</a>
</div>
