---
layout: post
title: Chapter 02 - Shelter
date: 2020-04-29 11:09
categories: [chapters]
author: Lee Jordan
published: true
---

<h2></h2>

Janice made it to the shelter just as the sun was setting. The pain in her feet and the back of her calves was almost unbearable. She tried not to imagine what she would do if there was nowhere to sleep in the shelter.

She rang the buzzer and waited. No response. She rang again. Desperation began to well up inside of her. He throat tightened. 

Eventually, a metal door slid up and Janice was looking at a woman of about 60. "YES?"

"I was wondering if you had a place for the night?"

"We are full. Go somewhere else!"

Janice could not stop the tears from moving down her cheeks.

"Please! I have nowhere else!"

The woman slowly cleaned her glasses, put them on and then leaned forward and gave Janice a thorough glance.

"You are with child?"

"Yes."

"What the hell are you doing outside in this! Come in!"

The door quickly swung open and Janice rushed inside. The door slammed quickly behind her.

"Thank you! I was afraid of what I would do if you didn't let me in."

The older woman's face softened. 

"You can't be out at night like that," pointing to Janice. 

"Come along. There is one place left. It isn't anything special, but better than the streets. I suppose you don't have any money for the bed?"

"No."

"As I thought. Find a better man next time."

Janice felt pain at this, but fought back more tears.

"Thank you."

Walking down a dark corridor, they stopped at the end of it. There was a small door, almost black - like most of the shelter, but obviously less used than the others.

"This was the janitor's closet in the old days. Now it barely fits a bed. Make sure the light is off soon, as it keeps others awake."

"Thanks again!"

The old woman slid into the darkness and Janice looked around the room. Her hands could almost touch the walls in either direction. She fell upon the bed.

Had she only imagined the baby kicking, she wondered, as she fell asleep clothed.

Hours later, she woke up, realising it was the middle of the night. She was cold and hungry. Without getting undressed, she pulled the covers over herself and waited for morning. 

<div class="pagination">
    <a class="pagination-item older" href="https://therapy.geraldleejordan.com/chapter-01/">Chapter One</a>
      <a class="pagination-item newer" href="https://therapy.geraldleejordan.com/chapter-03/">Chapter Three</a>
</div>
