---
layout: post
title: Chapter 04 - Forbidden Fruit
date: 2020-05-04 11:58:00 +1200
categories: [chapters]
author: Lee Jordan
published: true
---

Janice spent the afternoon wandering the streets, trying to get her bearings and exploring what was available around the shelter. There were no jobs since the troubles started. People scavenged for food and whatever else they could find.

Arriving back at the shelter, Pete was waiting at the metal door, with toothless smile. "No luck?"

"No."

She brushed past him and went straight to her room at the end of the hall.

Falling on her bed, she cried herself to sleep.

The next days were the same, wandering the streets to feel some sort of control and to keep from losing her mind in her small and dark room at the shelter. Food was difficult. She dug through dumpsters. 

On the third day, she got lucky as she wandered into an abandoned warehouse and found a room others had missed. It was behind piles of trash. A small room full of canned goods. She screamed with glee when she found it. Had she been followed, she wondered?

For a few minutes, she sat in the middle of the room and looked around at all of the cans. Apples, tomatoes, beans . . . everything. Signs of a lost age. Months ago, she would have thought nothing of these walls of food. Now, they were life itself.

She had felt this way once before. She was a small child and had been taken to the library by her mother. Surrounded by books, she felt herself the luckiest person in the world. Her mother understood and allowed her this time alone with books. She felt that way again with this food. To open each can would be like a trip into the past - a past of excess, ease and complete disregard for the natural environment.

She panicked as she realised that she didn't have a can-opener, but remembered an unused one at the shelter. She would have to sneak it out without that snitch Pete seeing.

After a few more blissful moments in her own castle of food, she grabbed a can of apples, tucked it into her clothes and headed for the door. She was careful to put the trash back in front of the door, hiding her cache of food as it had been hidden before. For a brief moment, she wondered if someone else had once hidden it like this and then forgotten about it - or had died. She shook this idea from her head and started back to the shelter with a dinner of apples in her jacket. 

She was happy for the first time in months.

<div class="pagination">
    <a class="pagination-item older" href="https://novel.geraldleejordan.com/chapter-03/">Chapter Three</a>
      <a class="pagination-item newer" href="https://novel.geraldleejordan.com/chapter-05/">Chapter Five</a>
</div>
