---
layout: post
title: Chapter 06 - Realization
date: 2020-05-06 11:34:00 +1200
categories: [chapters]
author: Lee Jordan
published: true
---

Janice woke up and it was dark, terrified by the question of where to throw away the apple can? She couldn't just put it in the kitchen bin. She couldn't leave it in her room. Various scenarios worked through her head in the darkness. She got up and put the can on one coat pocket and the opener and spoon in the other. She tried to go back to sleep.

She woke again to scuffling in the hallway. Light under the door. Must be morning. She got up and put on her coat, eager to walk a block or two away to get rid of the evidence.

Leaving her room, she ran into Marg, who she recognized as the woman who gave her sanctuary several days ago. She smiled and said, "Hello."

Marg looked startled and then recognised her, offering a return greeting.

"What is that smell, child?"

Janice was stunned. Thinking quickly, she said, "I found some perfume in what was left of a shop."

Marg looked at her as if a bit sad, smiled and walked on towards the kitchen.

Janice raced towards the front door, hoping she wouldn't see Pete, but hearing more scuffling behind her.

Walking - or waddling - as quickly as she could, Janice separated herself and the shelter, first one block, then two. She found an old dumpster than hadn't been touched in months, raised the lid slightly and tossed in the apple can. 

Free, she thought, looking around to see if anyone was around and then heading back to the shelter.

She passed the warehouse where the food was hidden, paused for a moment, and then began her slow movement back to the shelter. She would have to be more careful next time. People could be killed for food and she knew this too well. She had watched a shop owner struggling to save his business when the troubles began, watching him thrown into a crowd. His last moments being punched and trodden upon as the mob made their way into his shop.

She made it back to the shelter, put in the code to enter and then went to the kitchen, hoping there was still instant coffee.

Walking into the kitchen, she almost ran into Pete. 

"Good morning, miss."

"Morning!"

He smiled and watched her move across the kitchen to the kettle. She felt his eyes upon her back.

<div class="pagination">
    <a class="pagination-item older" href="https://singularity.geraldleejordan.com/chapter-05/">Chapter Five</a>
      <a class="pagination-item newer" href="https://singularity.geraldleejordan.com/chapter-07/">Chapter Seven</a>
</div>
