---
layout: post
title: Chapter 05 - The Fall 
date: 2020-05-05 10:43:00 +1200
categories: [chapters]
author: Lee Jordan
published: true
---

She shouldn't have opened the can in her room, but she had managed to take the ca-opener when Pete wasn't looking and the urge overwhelmed her. Sitting on her bed, looking at the can on the floor, with can-opener and an old, tarnished spoon on top. It was too much.

She imagined the autumn day when there was still hope in the air. She imagined the hands pulling the late apples fron the trees. She thought of bushels waiting outside a red shed - why red? She imagined there also being a bit of citrus and cinnamon in the can. 

Her mouth began to salivate. The baby kicked again.

She couldn't wait.

She managed to sit on the floor and slowly picked up the can and opener. The spoon hit the floor. Did she hear something else? No, it must be in her head.

She put the opener around the top and slowly punctured the lid. There was a slight sound as the vacuum was broken. Then it began. She was picked up by the smell. Weightless. Greedily, she continued opening until finally the top landed on the floor. Clank.

She sat over the can, looking into it. Almost too beautiful to bear were cuts of apple, soaking in liquid. The liquid had swirls of something. Yes, she was right! There was cinnamon. Bliss.

She slowly began to devour the apples, piece by piece. Her hands shook as she balanced on the spoon and steered towards her mouth. She had never been happier in her life. The room was suddenly filled with color. She began to hum to herself as she ate. The baby kicked.

Let this last forever, she thought.

Suddenly, she heard something. She dropped the spoon. She noticed a shadow under the door and terror overtook her. Half chewed foot was in her open mouth. The shadow did not move. She managed to swallow.

Suddenly, she thought about the apples. They were hers! She began to eat greedily with the dirty spoon. Clanking the sides of the can. Angrily, she threw the empty can and spoon under the bed and went under the blanket, hoping the shadow was gone.

Darkness surrounded her as she realised what she had done. She would have to pay for this.

Refusing to get up, she eventually fell into a troubled sleep.




<div class="pagination">
    <a class="pagination-item older" href="https://novel.geraldleejordan.com/chapter-04/">Chapter Four</a>
      <a class="pagination-item newer" href="https://novel.geraldleejordan.com/chapter-06/">Chapter Six</a>
</div>
