---
layout: post
title: Chapter 03 - His Return
date: 2020-05-03 12:30:00 +1200
categories: [chapters]
author: Lee Jordan
published: true
---

Janice woke with a headache. The sun was up and a bird could be heard far away. She had fallen asleep as the sun was coming up. Sliding her feet off the bed, she managed to sit up.

Coffee.

Slowly she pushed back the blanket, lunged for the door and made her way to the small room that served as a kitchen. "What had this place been before the troubles began," she wondered? Her focus turned to her throbbing head and she quickly ran to the toilets, making it just in time to raise the lid and vomit on the seat. Shaking, she huddled over the toilet for some minutes.

Tears began to run down her face again. "WHY?" She thought of him for a moment and then returned to heaving with nothing left to expel. 

Finally her body stopped. The tears ended. The baby kicked. She wanted to laugh and to cry. Grabbing an old rag, she began to clean the toilet, then herself, then headed to the kitchen.

Coffee, please.

She must have looked quite the sight when she entered the kitchen, as the older man inside flinched when she entered.

"Morning, uh, almost afternoon!"

"Morning," she said.

"I am Pete."

"Janice. Coffee somewhere?"

"Over there," he pointed to a glass kettle stained so black it was hard to see if there was actually coffee in it.

She reached across the room for it, hoping it would somehow come to her. Looking, she found an old cup in the cupboard, on which was barely legible, "Don't let the bastards drag you down!" She laughed, despite herself, and poured a cup of the black liquid into the cup that had seen so many like her. Taking a seat at the table, she wrapped her hands around the cup and began to slowly drink, as if meditating.

"Why is someone in your state travelling alone, if I might ask?"

His words broke into her few moments of bliss.

"I am single," she said, not wanting to say more.

"Oh, sorry. I didn't mean to pry." 

She knew he did, but tried to return to her coffee.

"I heard you come in yesterday evening. You slept awhile!"

Not really, she thought, but said, "Yeah."

"I have been here awhile. Lost my job when it all started."

[pause]

"Can you guess what I was?"

I don't care, she thought. "No."

"You certainly aren't much of a talker! I was a preacher! Saved souls!"

One of those nuts, she thought. She couldn't help herself, saying, "How does a preacher lose a job to this?" She pointed around, as if to specify what the world had become. 

He looked blankly at her for a moment and then said, "People have lost their faith. They want something to believe in, but can't bring themselves to believe when they see such despair around them . . . they lack vision!" He slammed his hand on the table and she sought to change the subject.

"What do you do now?"

"I clean toilets and report small crimes to what is left of the police for small payment," he smiled.

So, not much different than being a preacher, she thought. She looked him over. The top of his bald head was absolutely covered in moles and freckles. Hadn't he ever heard of a hat? She also guessed him to be diabetic - one of the benefits of a past as a nurse - didn't he give a shit about himself? Just pretended to give a damn about another imaginary world, while he destroys himself and the the world we share. Just like a religionist, she thought, turning away from him. People like him destroyed this world. She tried to imagine that he had left the room and she could drink her coffee in peace.

"What about you? What do you do and why are you alone?"

I despise this person already, she thought.

"I was a nurse, but now on my way to what is left of my family. As to why I am alone, that is none of your business."

"Couldn't keep them together, eh?" He pointed to her knees.

She wanted to throw her coffee all over him, but responded, "He caught a flight before this started and has been unable to return. I saw him off at the airport and he promised to come back. I watched him disappear into the clouds and his promise to come back is what keeps me going."

"You sound religious," he smiled, showing a few remaining yellow teeth.

"Fuck off," she said and left the room.



<div class="pagination">
    <a class="pagination-item older" href="https://singularity.geraldleejordan.com/chapter-02/">Chapter Two</a>
      <a class="pagination-item newer" href="https://singularity.geraldleejordan.com/chapter-04/">Chapter Four</a>
</div>
